---
title: 'Glossary'
description: 'A glossary of key terms and their definitions to clarify concepts'
---

## Action Cache (AC)

The Action Cache (AC) stores commands along with their input digests, ensuring
that actions with the same inputs and commands produce identical outputs. This
cache allows NativeLink to reuse outputs from previous executions without
rerunning the actions.

## Bazel

Bazel is an open-source build and test tool developed by Google. In terms of
NativeLink, Bazel is a client that communicates with the NativeLink scheduler to
coordinate and execute various build tasks. As a client, Bazel is responsible
for analyzing dependencies, scheduling tasks, and managing the build process. It
interacts with the NativeLink to leverage features such as caching (CAS),
distributed execution, and artifact management.

## Buck2

Buck2 is a build system developed by Meta. In the context of NativeLink, Buck2
functions as a client, interacting with NativeLink's server to coordinate and
execute build tasks. As a client, Buck2 is responsible for analyzing
dependencies, scheduling tasks, and managing the build process efficiently. It
interacts with the NativeLink's server to leverage features such as caching
(CAS), distributed execution, and artifact management.

## Content Addressable Storage (CAS)

Content Addressable Storage (CAS) is a storage system in which data is
identified and accessed based on its content rather than its location. Each
piece of data (artifact) is hashed, generating a unique identifier (digest)
based on the data's content. In NativeLink, the CAS stores the binary artifacts
resulting from build actions. It stores identical data pieces only once and
reuses the data pieces as needed.

## Reclient

Reclient is an open source build tool created by Google as the successor to
Goma. In terms of NativeLink, it is a client that interacts with NativeLink's
server to leverage features such as caching (CAS), distributed execution, and
artifact management. It is mostly used to compile and build Chromium, an open
source project behind the Google Chrome browser.

## Hermeticity

For build systems, hermeticity refers to the property of creating isolated and
self-contained environments for building and testing software. A hermetic build
environment ensures that builds are not influenced by the external state, such
as your local environment or variations in system dependencies. This isolation
is achieved by using precise, versioned dependencies and fully specifying the
build configuration. In NativeLink, hermeticity is achieved using Nix.

## Mono Repo

A mono repository, also referred to as a mono repo, contains the source code for
multiple projects, often across different domains or areas of a single
organization. They require unique tooling to handle multiple languages and
technologies within the repo. A good example of a mono repo is the Chromium
project.

## NativeLink

NativeLink is open source and designed to enhance the build processes of large,
complex projects. It offers an out-of-the-box remote execution server that
integrates with clients like Bazel, allowing build and test actions to be
offloaded to more powerful remote machines. This lets you to optimize resource
usage and reduce build times.

## Nix

Nix is an open source tool that builds packages in isolation from each other.
It's how builds remain hermetic in NativeLink. Nix ensures that builds are
reproducible and don't have undeclared dependencies, makes it easy to share
development and build environments for projects, and ensures that installing or
upgrading packages cannot break other packages.

## Remote caching

Remote caching optimizes the build and test processes by storing and reusing
build artifacts on remote storage systems, like S3 or Redis. It reduces build
times and improves compute resource usage by avoiding redundant computations.

## Remote Execution Server

Remote execution refers to the process of running computational tasks, such as
building, compiling, and testing code, on remote servers rather than on a local
machine. By using remote servers, tasks can be distributed across multiple
servers (i.e., parallel processing). This can speed up build and test processes
faster than local machines.

## Remote Build Execution

The Remote Execution Protocol is a set of protobol buffers (As of V2) which act
as standardized guidelines and API specifications that enable clients (such as
build systems like Bazel) to distribute build and test action across multiple
remote machines. This protocol facilitates the interaction between clients and
remote execution services (like NativeLink), ensuring tasks are executed
efficiently.

## Rust

Rust is a programming language that prioritizes and enforces memory and thread
safety for improved reliability, unlike other languages like Java. NativeLink
source code is written in Rust.

## Scheduler

The scheduler is a core component in NativeLink. It is responsible for managing
and coordinating the execution of tasks on remote workers based on resource
availability and dependencies. It leverages the DAG representation of task
dependencies to ensure tasks are executed in the correct order and optimizes the
build process through parallel execution and caching mechanisms.

## Simulations

A simulation is a computer-based model to replicate the behavior and
interactions of robots within a virtual environment. People can test an analyze
robotic systems without the need of physical robots in real-world environments.
NativeLink executes high-fidelity simulations through its advanced caching
system, distributed execution of design layouts (with Verilog & VHDL), and
continuous, real-time monitoring to detect anomalies.

## Workers

The workers are one of the core components of NativeLink. They are responsible
for executing the build tasks assigned by the scheduler and create the build
artifacts. The worker pool can consist of multiple workers running on powerful
remote machines.
